Each mission that is invited to the Senior Review will submit a proposal
outlining how its science investigations will benefit the Astrophysics
Division’s research objectives.

(see 2014 science plan)

---

the three principal criteria are: (1) scientific merit, (2) relevance and
responsiveness to the Astrophysics Division’s strategic goals, and (3)
technical capability and cost reasonablesness.

---

As discussed in Section 6.1, proposals should provide descriptions of the
project’s scientific merit; promise of future impact and productivity; impact
of scientific results; accessibility and usability of data; spacecraft and
instrument health and safety; observatory stewardship; training, mentoring, and
leadership opportunities; and communications.

---

For this review, projects are required to submit plans that have a set of
Prioritized Mission Objectives (PMOs) for FY20-FY22, with a possible extension
to FY23-FY24. These PMOs should elucidate the scientific, technical, and/or
budgetary priorities for the upcoming three to five-year planning cycle and
allow the Senior Review Panel to make a comparative analysis amongst divergent
mission needs and priorities for allocating available funding. This will allow
NASA flexibility in planning within a dynamic budgetary environment.

---

These prioritized objectives will also allow subsequent Senior Reviews to
assess and measure the success of each mission in achieving its stated goals,
as well as provide reporting inputs for the Agency. For missions that are
primarily driven by GO/GI-type investigations, the PMOs should primarily focus
on stewardship and efficiency. Even for these GO/GI-driven missions, however, a
project may opt to state as a PMO the expected science return of one or more
current or future ‘key projects,’ and/or the expected science return from other
discretionary allocations of observing time.

---


Priority is given to maintain understanding of the instrument performance, to
monitor progress toward accomplishing the objectives of science observations,
and to involve the science community in formulating the mission observing
program to make the best scientific use of NASA’s Astrophysics missions;
however, more limited funding may be available in this “minimal-science data
analysis mode” for detailed analysis, data fitting, modeling, and
interpretation.

---

There are three overarching Astrophysics imperatives identified in the 2014 SMD
Science Plan: “discover how the universe works, explore how it began and
evolved, and search for life on planets around other stars.” These objectives
are derived from the 2010 Astrophysics Decadal survey, New Worlds, New Horizons
in Astronomy and Astrophysics. Each project within the Astrophysics portfolio
is chosen for its ability to shed insight into these areas. Each project should
demonstrate in the Senior Review, therefore, how its science can contribute to
the vision of the Astrophysics Division as outlined within the SMD Science
Plan, the Decadal Survey, and the Astrophysics Roadmap, which presents a
30-year vision for Astrophysics at NASA.

---

objectives during the FY20 to FY24 timeframe, in accordance with the
instructions to the Senior Review Panels. The proposal should address the
following areas specifically and in conjunction with the PMOs identified for
the next 3-5 year planning cycle:

1. Scientific merit, including that of the project itself, and its unique
capabilities and relevance to the stated Astrophysics research objectives and
focus areas as part of the overall Astrophysics mission portfolio. Missions
having a comprehensive and extensive GO/GI program should be prepared to
discuss the relative merits and scientific productivity of these programs
compared to alternate sources of research funding within the Astrophysics
Division Research & Analysis portfolio;

2. Promise of future impact and productivity (due to uniqueness of
capabilities, wavelength coverage, etc.) (again, missions with GO/GI programs
should be prepared to discuss the promise of those programs);

3. Progress made toward achieving the PMOs identified in the 2016 Senior Review
proposal (for missions that were subject to the 2016 SR);

4. Impact of past scientific results as evidenced by publications, citations,
press releases, etc., and how that ties into future promise;

5. Broad accessibility, usability, and utility of the data, both as a unique
mission and as a member of the Astrophysics mission portfolio, focusing on the
cost efficiency, technology development, data collection, archiving, and
distribution;

6. Spacecraft and instrument health and safety;

7. Level and quality of observatory stewardship (e.g., maximizing the
scientific return while minimizing the ongoing costs);

8. In the context of the expected lifetime of the mission, the project’s plans
to prepare for the future by providing the training, mentoring and leadership
opportunities that will expand the skills of its staff, as well as foster the
next generation of mission leaders; and

9. Effectiveness of communications and communications plans, including
communication with the science community and the general public.

---

